believe it or not holding a pencil in
your mouth can make you happy
if you position it horizontally your
lips will automatically stretch into a
smile
vertically is not good lead poisoning
won't make you happier
your brain keeps monitoring everything
that's happening to your body
then it analyzes this information to
figure out how you're feeling at a
particular moment
oh you're smiling then you must be happy
so in short
you trick your brain with a cheerful
expression on your face
ever notice how your mouth burns when
you're snacking on pineapple
it's because when you're eating this
fruit it's eating you back
your lips tongue and even the roof of
your mouth start to feel raw
pineapple is the only food people know
that contains
bromelain that's an enzyme that breaks
down proteins
but don't worry just swallow the fruit
your stomach acid knows how to deal with
the offending enzyme
the popular belief that people only use
ten percent of their brain
power is nothing but a myth even when
you're resting or sleeping
more than a tenth of your brain is
working not all of your brain's regions
are active all the time
but most work on this or that task 24 7.
when the mars rover curiosity celebrated
its first anniversary on the red planet
it's saying happy birthday well not
actually saying of course
guys from nasa programmed the rover's
soil sample analysis unit
in a certain way this equipment vibrates
at different frequencies
that time in august 2013 it strung
together the sounds of the happy
birthday song
a brain freeze also known as an ice
cream headache
is a warning signal your body sends you
it happens when you drink or eat
something that's too cold
and do it too fast the vessels and
arteries in the back of your throat
including the ones taking blood your
brain get chilled
they immediately become narrow and open
up only after they're warm again
these changes are going on close to the
sensitive nerves in your palate
it causes pain in your forehead it's as
if your brain's telling you
stop doing whatever makes me feel these
terrible temperature changes
huh every two minutes people all over
the world take more pictures than they
did in the entire 19th century
however there's nothing said about
today's photos being any better
people are kind of programmed to return
favors this instinct probably developed
when people needed to help one another
to survive
these days companies like using it
against you
they offer freebies and you feel obliged
to spend some cash
studies have proved that sneezing is
your nose ways to
reset a sneeze reboots the cells that
line the insides of your nose
they're called cilia sneezing is also
one of the first offenses against
bacteria
and other you know unwanted stuff when
the delicate nose lining gets tickled
with a foreign substance
like pollen dirt or dust it sends a
signal to your brain
the brain informs your body it's time to
sneeze
and the body prepares itself by shutting
the eyes
moving the tongue towards the roof of
the mouth and bracing the muscles
all this happens within a few seconds
glass gem corn has multicolored shiny
kernels
that glimmer like jewels they aren't
photoshopped or genetically modified
it's a regular open pollinated type of
corn native to north america
you're more likely to get attracted to a
person who thinks and looks the same as
you do
the belief that opposites attract isn't
true
on the other hand some land snails are
hairy
yes there's no connection between those
two facts anyway
scientists suppose this feature helps
snails hold on to wet grass and leaves
their hairy shells can stick to the
surface covered with water
droplets but these tiny hairs often wear
off when an
animal grows up the part of your brain
that's responsible for vision
is actually in the back of your head the
right side of your brain controls the
vision on the left side
and vice versa okay put down your phone
and pay attention
multitasking is actually impossible your
brain
only allows you to switch between
different tasks really fast
not to do them at the same time such
context switching
isn't ideal either studies show that in
this case
people make mistakes much more often
plus they need
twice as long as usual to do things so
focus there is one exception though
when you're engaged in some physical
activity you've done many times before
you can simultaneously perform a mental
task
that's why you can easily walk up the
stairs or take a shower
and think about problems at work
food tastes better when someone else has
made it that's why a sandwich from a
cafe looks more appetizing
even though you use the same ingredients
when study suggests it's because it
takes time to make yourself a meal
so when you're ready to dig in you don't
feel all that excited
your dreams are a complex mixture of
your imagination
memories and knowledge the average
person has from
four to seven dreams every night but not
all people remember
them on average when a person snores
it doesn't get louder than 60 decibels
that's as loud as a regular conversation
but sometimes the noise level can reach
80 decibels
which is as loud as a working food
blender
natural and properly preserved honey has
zero chance of spoiling
it's packed with sugar and is rather
acidic plus it contains
little water which makes bacteria
dehydrated
that's why organisms that spoil food
can't survive in honey
in other words you can eat honey that's
several thousand years old
and feel okay okay okay
asking a question isn't the fastest way
to find needed information on the
internet
but if you write something wrong on a
forum lots of people will show up to
correct you
ain't that true a person can survive
getting accidentally ejected into the
vacuum of space without a spacesuit
they'll be able to hold on for about a
minute and a half
this person is unlikely to stay
conscious long enough to save themselves
but there will be some time for other
crew members to try and rescue them
but you better be quick if there is a
calorie chart in a restaurant
people tend to order less healthy and
more high calorie food
they see the difference between let's
say a burger and a big serving of caesar
salad
isn't that big but the burger seems to
be more filling
that's what they order but when people
don't know
that a big portion of salad contains
almost as many calories as a burger
they picked a healthier option it's the
salad dressing
around 25 percent of your body's
cholesterol is in your brain
it's crucial for your memory and
learning abilities but the blood-brain
barrier doesn't let brain cells get
cholesterol from the blood
that's why your brain has to make its
own cholesterol and when it breaks down
the brain immediately recycles it into
new cholesterol
your eyes never stop moving taking in
visual information
if they didn't you wouldn't be able to
see the whole picture
you don't notice these movements because
your brain is a perfect video editor
it stabilizes the pictures and connects
different fragments into one smooth
video if you have to deal with angry
customers
try placing a mirror behind you at the
counter when people come up to you
they see themselves in the mirror this
trick usually prevents them from acting
irrationally and rudely
people eat more proteins today it might
be why finger and toenails grow
faster these days than they did 50 years
ago
while getting ready for a test or exam
choose some gum with a particular taste
during the test pop a chewing gum with
the same flavor into your mouth
the chances are your brain will connect
the taste and the process
of chewing with the information you
learned while preparing
and you're likely to remember everything
much faster
all before the teacher tells you to spit
out that gum
hey i didn't say it was perfect your
teeth are a part of the skeletal system
but they don't count as bones
maybe it's because they can't regenerate
if you fracture a bone it'll heal on its
own
by producing new bone cells a cast will
only help it heal straight when
lightning strikes a person
it often leaves a weird pattern on their
skin
these patterns are called lightning
flowers such markings can also occur on
any surfaces and materials damaged by
high voltage
your body is made up of more than 37
trillion cells
go ahead count them at the same time
more than 7 billion people live on the
earth
it means there are more than 5 000 times
more cells in your body
than there are people on our planet
information both amazing and useless
at the same time whenever you need to
speak in public
take a bottle of water with you if you
realize you've forgotten the text
take a few sips no one will understand
you've made a pause
because excuse me a part of your speech
has
slipped your mind